---
 command: stats-arguments
 source_url: https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/latest/SearchReference/Stats-arguments
 title: stats-arguments
 download_date: 2026-02-03 09:18:00
---

 ## Syntax
(partitions=<num>)? (allnum=<bool>)? (delim=<string>)? (<stats-agg-term> | <sparkline-agg-term>)* (<by-clause>)? (<dedup_splitvals>)? <sparkline-agg> (as <wc-field>)? sparkline "(" count ("," <span-length> )? ")" | sparkline "(" <sparkline-func> "(" <wc-field> ")" ( "," <span-length> )? ")" c|count|dc|mean|avg|stdev|stdevp|var|varp|sum|sumsq|min|max|range avg|count|max|median|min|perc|sum <stats-agg> (as <wc-field>)? <stats-func>( "(" ( <evaled-field> | <wc-field> )? ")" )? eval "("<eval-expression>")" <stats-c>|<stats-dc>|<stats-mean>|<stats-stdev>|<stats-var>|<stats-sum>|<stats-sumsq>|<stats-min>|<stats-max>|<stats-mode>|<stats-median>|<stats-earliest>|<stats-first>|<stats-last>|<stats-latest>|<stats-perc>|<stats-list>|<stats-values>|<stats-range>|<stats-estdc>|<stats-estdc-error>|<stats-earliest-time>|<stats-latest-time>|<stats-rate> estdc estdc_error c|count dc|distinct_count mean|avg stdev|stdevp var|varp sum sumsq min max range mode median earliest earliest_time first last latest latest_time rate (perc|p|exactperc|upperperc)<num> list values by <field-list> dedup_splitvals=<bool>

## Description
See stats-command description. A sparkline specifier optionally renamed to a new field name. A sparkline specifier, which takes the first argument of a aggregation function on a field,  Aggregation function to use to generate sparkline values.  Each sparkline value is produced by applying  Aggregation functions supported by mrollup command. A statistical specifier optionally renamed to a new field name. A specifier formed by a aggregation function applied to a field or set of fields.   A dynamically evaled field Statistical aggregators. The estimated count of the distinct values of the field. The theoretical error of the estimated count of the distinct values of the field, where the error represents a ratio of abs(estimate_value - real_value)/real_value The count of the occurrences of the field. The count of distinct values of the field. The arithmetic mean of the field. The {sample, population} standard deviation of the field. The {sample, population} variance of the field. The sum of the values of the field. The sum of the square of the values of the field. The minimum value of the field (lexicographic, if non-numeric). The maximum value of the field (lexicographic, if non-numeric). The difference between max and min (only if numeric) The most frequent value of the field. The middle-most value of the field. Returns the chronologically earliest seen occurrence of a value of the field. Returns the epoch time of the chronologically earliest seen occurrence of a value of the field. The first seen value of the field. The last seen value of the field. Returns the chronologically latest seen occurrence of a value of the field. Returns epoch time of the chronologically latest seen occurrence of a value of the field. Returns the per second rate change of the value of the field.  Requires the earliest and latest value of the field to be numerical and the earliest_time and latest_time of the field to be different. The n-th percentile value of this field.  perc<num>, p<num>, and upperperc<num> give approximate values for the integer percentile requested.  The approximation algorithm we use provides a strict bound of the actual value at for any percentile.  perc<num> and p<num> return a single number that represents the lower end of that range while upperperc<num> gives the approximate upper bound.  exactperc<num> provides the exact value, but will be very expensive for high cardinality fields. List of all values of this field as a multi-value entry.  Order of values reflects order of input events. List of all distinct values of this field as a multi-value entry.  Order of values is lexigraphical. Fields to group by. Changes the default behavior of the command to count each unique

 