---
 command: meventcollect
 source_url: https://help.splunk.com/en/splunk-enterprise/search/spl-search-reference/9.4/search-commands/meventcollect
 title: meventcollect
 download_date: 2026-02-03 09:11:43
---

 # meventcollect

Converts events generated by streaming search commands into metric data points and inserts the data into a metric index on the indexers.

You can use the meventcollect command only if your role has the run_mcollect capability. See Define roles on the Splunk platform with capabilities in Securing Splunk Enterprise.

CAUTION: This command is considered risky because, if used incorrectly, it can pose a security risk or potentially lose data when it runs. As a result, this command triggers SPL safeguards. See SPL safeguards for risky commands in Securing the Splunk Platform.

The required syntax is in bold.

#### Required arguments

#### Optional arguments

You use the meventcollect command to convert streaming events into metric data to be stored in a metric index on the indexers. The metrics data uses a specific format for the metrics fields. See
Metrics data format in Metrics.

Only streaming commands can precede the meventcollect command so that results can be ingested on the indexers. If you would like to run a search that uses transforming commands to generate metric data points, use mcollect instead of meventcollect.

CAUTION: The meventcollect command causes new data to be written to a metric index for every run of the search. In addition, if you run an meventcollect search over large amounts of data, it potentially can overwhelm indexers and indexer clusters that do not have a significant amount of capacity.

Note: All metrics search commands are case sensitive. This means, for example, that meventcollect treats as the following as three distinct values of metric_name: cap.gear, CAP.GEAR, and Cap.Gear.

The Splunk platform cannot index metric data points that contain metric_name fields which are empty or composed entirely of white spaces.

#### How to use the split argument

The split argument determines how meventcollect identifies the measurement fields in your search. It defaults to false.

When split=false, your search needs to explicitly identify its measurement fields. If necessary it can use rename or eval conversions to do this.

- If you have single-metric events, your meventcollect search must produce results with a metric_name field that provides the name of the measure, and a _value field that provides the measure's numeric value.
- If you have multiple-metric events, your meventcollect search must produce results that follow this syntax: metric_name:<metric_name>=<numeric_value>. Each of these fields will be treated as a measurement. meventcollecttreats the remaining fields as dimensions.

When you set split=true, you use field-list to identify the dimensions in your search. meventcollect converts any field that is not in the field-list into a measurement. The only exceptions are internal fields beginning with an underscore and the prefix_field, if you have set one.

When you set split=allnums, meventcollect treats all numeric fields as metric measures and all non-numeric fields as dimensions. You can optionally use field-list to declare that meventcollect should treat certain numeric fields in the events as dimensions.

#### Set a prefix field

Use the prefix_field argument to apply a prefix to the metric fields in your event data.

For example, if you have the following data:

type=cpu usage=0.78 idle=0.22

You have two metric fields, usage and idle.

Say you include the following in an mcatalog search of that data:

Because you have set split = true the Splunk software automatically converts those fields into measures, because they are not otherwise identified in a <field-list>. Then it applies the value of the specified prefix_field as a prefix to the metric field names. In this case, because you have specified the type field as the prefix field, its value, cpu, becomes the metric name prefix. The results look like this:

| metric_name:cpu.usage | metric_name:cpu.idle |
| --- | --- |
| 0.78 | 0.22 |

#### 1: Collect metrics.log data into a metrics index

The following example shows you how to collect metrics log data into a metric index called 'my_metric_index'.
 