---
 command: appendcols
 source_url: https://help.splunk.com/en/splunk-enterprise/search/spl-search-reference/9.4/search-commands/appendcols
 title: appendcols
 download_date: 2026-02-03 09:02:02
---

 # appendcols

Appends the fields of the subsearch results with the input search results. All fields of the subsearch are combined into the current results, with the exception of internal fields. For example, the first subsearch result is merged with the first main result, the second subsearch result is merged with the second main result, and so on.

appendcols [override= <bool> | <subsearch-options>...] <subsearch>

#### Required arguments

#### Optional arguments

#### Subsearch options

The appendcols command must be placed in a search string after a transforming command such as stats, chart, or timechart. The appendcols command can't be used before a transforming command because it must append to an existing set of table-formatted results, such as those generated by a transforming command. See Command types.

Note that the subsearch argument to the appendcols command doesn't have to contain a transforming command.

#### Example 1:

Search for "404" events and append the fields in each event to the previous search results.

This is a valid search string because appendcols comes after the transforming command table and adds columns to an existing table of results.

#### Example 2:

This search uses appendcols to count the number of times a certain field occurs on a specific server and uses that value to calculate other fields.

- First, this search uses stats to count the number of individual users on a specific server and names that variable "totalUsers".
- Then, this search uses appendcols to search the server and count how many times a certain field occurs on that specific server. This count is renamed "VariableA".
- The eval command is used to define a "variableB".

```
totalUsers
```

```
variableA
```

```
variableB
```

append, appendpipe, join, set
 