---
 command: replace
 source_url: https://help.splunk.com/en/splunk-enterprise/search/spl-search-reference/9.4/search-commands/replace
 title: replace
 download_date: 2026-02-03 09:15:15
---

 # replace

Replaces field values in your search results with the values that you specify. Does not replace values in fields generated by stats or eval functions. If you do not specify a field, the value is replaced in all non-generated fields.

replace (<wc-string> WITH <wc-string>)... [IN <field-list>]

#### Required arguments

#### Optional arguments

The replace command is a distributable streaming command. See Command types.

Non-wildcard replacement values specified later take precedence over those replacements specified earlier. For a wildcard replacement, fuller matches take precedence over lesser matches. To assure precedence relationships, you are advised to split the replace into two separate invocations. When using wildcard replacements, the result must have the same number of wildcards, or none at all. Wildcards ( * ) can be used to specify many values to replace, or replace values with.

#### 1. Replace a value in all fields

Change any host value that ends with "localhost" to simply "localhost" in all fields.

#### 2. Replace a value in a specific field

Replace an IP address with a more descriptive name in the host field.

#### 3. Change the value of two fields

Replaces the values in the start_month and end_month fields. You can separate the names in the field list with spaces or commas.

#### 4. Change the order of values in a field

In the host field, change the order of string values that contain the word localhost so that the string "localhost" precedes the other strings.

#### 5. Replace multiple values in a field

Replace the values in a field with more descriptive names. Separate the value replacements with comma.

#### 6. Replace empty strings

Search for an error message and replace empty strings with a whitespace.

Note: This example will not work unless you have values that are actually the empty string, which is not the same as not having a value.

#### 7: Replace values in an internal field

Replace values of the internal field _time.
 